.TH FAKEPKG "1" "Aug 2021" "NONE" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fakepkg \- reassemble Arch Linux packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fakepkg
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script was designed to reassemble installed packages from its deliverd files.
It comes in handy if there is no internet connection available and you have no
access to a up-to-date package cache.
.br
Reassembling packages may take some time, so be patient. However you may speed
things up a little by using
.B \-j
or
.B XZ_OPT / ZSTD_NBTHREADS
\ .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h , "\-\-help"
Display this help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-v , "\-\-verbose"
Increase verbosity
.TP
.BR \-j , "\-\-jobs <jobs>"
Build in parallel - you may want to set XZ_OPT / ZSTD_NBTHREADS
.TP
.BR \-o , "\-\-out <dir>"
Write output to <dir>
.TP
.BR \-r , "\-\-root <dir>"
Use <dir> as an alternate root directory containing pacman db
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B PKGEXT
sets the file ending of the reassembled package and implicitly the compression
format.

.B XZ_OPT, ZSTD_CLEVEL, ZSTD_NBTHREADS, ...
are honored by tar. Common usage scenarios are to utilize multicore
compression. Maximum performace was achieved when used in conjunction with two
jobs of fakepkg. However more than two active jobs may even lead to performance
loss.
.SH EXAMPLES
Reassamble the package named "tar"

.ti 12
.B fakepkg
tar

Reassamble the packages "gzip" and "pacman" and place the packages in ~/Downloads

.ti 12
.B fakepkg
-o ~/Downloads gzip pacman

Reassamble a bunch of packages in parallel with verbose output

.ti 12
.B fakepkg
-j 2 -v gzip munge binutils

Recreate all installed packages with xz's multicore compression

.ti 12
PKGEXT=".pkg.tar.xz" XZ_OPT="-T 0"
.B fakepkg
$(pacman -Qsq)

.SH "BUGS"
.sp
Bugs? You must be kidding; there are no bugs in this software\&.
But if I happen to be wrong, send me an email with as much detail as possible
to gordian.edenhofer@gmail.com.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Gordian Edenhofer.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 Gordian Edenhofer
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B pacman,
.B tar,
.B xz,
.B zstd
