=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

fakepkg - reassemble Arch Linux packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: B<fakepkg> [ OPTIONS ] [ TARGETS ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Pacman usually stores all downloaded packages in its package cache to enable the user
to downgrade each and every package. However if the package cache was removed either
by accident or by purpose to e.g. save disk space, it may be usefull to recrete the
cache at a later point. The obvious choice would be to download all those packages again.
However this is actually redundant since all files and folders from the packages should
reside on your system. This is where fakepkg comes in handy. Its purpose is to recreate
any given package as long as it is installed on your system. This probably saves you a
lot of bandwith and time in comparison to building the package from source or downloading
it from third parties.

B<Warning:> The files from your system are taken as they are, hence any modifications
done to them by you or any program will be present in the assembled package. This might
be seen as either downside or benefit. However distributing the recreated package is
therefore discouraged. See ABS and Arch Rollback Machine for alternatives.

B<Note:> Certain files and folders may only be read by root.
Though fakepkg will warn you in those cases, consider running it as root.

B<Note:> Reassembling packages may take some time, so be patient.
However you may speed things up a little by using B<-j> or B<XZ_OPT>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>,B<--help>

Display this help message and exit

=item B<-v>,B<--verbose>

Increase verbosity

=item B<-j>,B<--jobs <jobs>>

Build in parallel - you may want to set XZ_OPT

=item B<-o>,B<--out <dir>>

Write output to <dir>

=item B<-r>,B<--root <dir>>

Use <dir> as an alternate root directory containing pacman db

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

B<XZ_OPT> is fully honored and is considered by tar. Common usage scenarios are to
utilize multicore compression. Maximum performace was achieved when used in
conjunction with two jobs of fakepkg. However more than two active jobs may even
lead to performance loss.

=head1 EXAMPLES

To reassemble e.g. gzip and binutils, use the following command:

    fakepkg gzip binutils

You may as well specify a destination folder:

    fakepkg -o /var/cache/pacman/pkg tar xz

Recreating multiple packages at once with only one thread can take some time. This
can be sped up by utilizing multiple jobs, in this case 4:

    fakepkg -j 4 linux slurm-llnl virtualbox qemu

Alternatively it may also make sense to set the tar environment variable for multi
core compression. Hereby tar uses all the CPU power hence starting multiple jobs brings no performance gain:

    XZ_OPT="-T 0" fakepkg $(pacman -Qsq)

=head1 AUTHOR

Gordian Edenhofer <gordian.edenhofer@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE

Unless otherwise stated, the files in this project may be distributed under the
termsof the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
either version 2 of the License, or any later version. This work is distributed
in the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the
implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. See [version 2]
(https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html) and [version 3]
(https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl-3.0.html) of the GNU General Public License for more details.
